+++
title = "3.1 Cross Site Scripting"
description = "A rudimentary guide to DOM-XSS vulnerabilities"
[taxonomies]
tags = ['web exploitation', 'dom-xss']
+++


Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) is a type of security vulnerability that occurs when an attacker is able to inject malicious code, usually in the form of scripts written in JavaScript, into a web application. This injected code is then executed by unsuspecting users who interact with the compromised application. XSS attacks exploit the trust that a website has in its users, allowing attackers to manipulate or steal sensitive information, impersonate users, or perform malicious actions on their behalf.

XSS vulnerabilities arise when a web application does not properly validate, sanitize, or escape user-generated input before rendering it in the browser. There are several common types of XSS attacks:

1. **Stored (Persistent) XSS:** In this type of attack, the injected malicious code is permanently stored on the target server, often within a database. When other users visit the affected page, they unwittingly execute the injected code.

2. **Reflected (Non-Persistent) XSS:** In a reflected XSS attack, the injected code is embedded in a URL or input field. When a user clicks on a malicious link or submits a form, the injected code is reflected back by the server and executed in the user's browser.

3. **DOM-based XSS:** This variant of XSS involves manipulating the Document Object Model (DOM) of a web page through JavaScript to execute malicious code. Unlike other types of XSS, the payload is not stored or reflected from the server, making it harder to detect.

XSS attacks can have serious consequences, including:

- **Data Theft:** Attackers can steal user cookies, session tokens, and other sensitive information, gaining unauthorized access to user accounts.

- **Phishing:** Malicious scripts can be used to create convincing fake login pages, tricking users into disclosing their credentials.

- **Malware Distribution:** Attackers can deliver malware to users' devices, potentially causing data loss or further compromise.

- **Session Hijacking:** By stealing session cookies, attackers can impersonate users and gain unauthorized access to their accounts.

To mitigate XSS vulnerabilities, developers should:

- **Input Validation and Sanitization:** Always validate and sanitize user inputs to prevent the injection of malicious scripts.

- **Output Escaping:** Properly escape user-generated content before rendering it in the browser to prevent code execution.

- **Content Security Policy (CSP):** Implement a CSP to restrict the sources from which scripts can be executed on a web page, reducing the risk of successful XSS attacks.

- **Regular Security Audits:** Conduct routine security assessments and vulnerability testing to identify and address potential XSS vulnerabilities in web applications.

In summary, Cross-Site Scripting vulnerabilities pose a significant threat to web applications and their users by allowing attackers to inject malicious scripts that can compromise user data, privacy, and system integrity. Mitigating XSS vulnerabilities requires diligent coding practices and a proactive approach to web application security.

For more resources, refer to the following:

- [OWASP Cross Site Scripting](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/xss/)
- [PortSwigger dom-xss](https://portswigger.net/web-security/cross-site-scripting)

{{ youtube(id="L5l9lSnNMxg", class="textCenter") }}

{{ webring(webring="#", webringName="Go to the Top") }}
