+++
title = "3.2 SQL Injections"
description = "A beginner's guide to SQLi"
[taxonomies]
tags = ['web exploitation', 'SQL Injection attacks']
+++


An SQL injection (SQLi) attack is a type of cybersecurity exploit that targets vulnerabilities in web applications' handling of SQL (Structured Query Language) queries. SQL injection occurs when an attacker is able to manipulate the input of a web application in such a way that it allows them to execute unauthorized SQL queries against the application's database. This can lead to unauthorized access, data exposure, data manipulation, and potentially the compromise of the entire application or system.

SQL injection attacks typically occur when a web application fails to properly validate, sanitize, or escape user-provided inputs before incorporating them into SQL queries that are sent to a database server. There are several common scenarios where SQL injection attacks can take place:

1. **User Login Forms:** Attackers can input malicious SQL statements as part of the login credentials to bypass authentication mechanisms and gain unauthorized access to an application.

2. **Search and Filtering Functions:** If a search or filtering function in a web application directly incorporates user inputs into SQL queries, attackers can manipulate the inputs to alter or extract data from the database.

3. **Data Retrieval:** Attackers can modify SQL queries to retrieve sensitive information from the database, such as user credentials, financial data, or personal information.

4. **Data Manipulation:** Malicious SQL statements can be used to modify, insert, or delete data in the database, potentially causing significant damage to the application and its underlying data.

SQL injection attacks can have severe consequences, including:

- **Data Breaches:** Attackers can access, exfiltrate, or manipulate sensitive data stored in the database.

- **Unauthorized Access:** By bypassing authentication mechanisms, attackers can gain control over user accounts and administrative privileges.

- **Application Disruption:** Manipulating database queries can lead to application downtime or crashes, affecting user experience and business operations.

To prevent SQL injection attacks, developers should follow best practices:

1. **Parameterized Queries:** Use parameterized queries or prepared statements to separate user inputs from the SQL query itself, reducing the risk of injection.

2. **Input Validation and Sanitization:** Validate and sanitize user inputs to ensure they meet expected criteria and don't contain malicious content.

3. **Least Privilege:** Ensure that database accounts used by the application have the minimum required privileges, reducing the potential impact of a successful attack.

4. **Web Application Firewalls (WAFs):** Implement WAFs that can detect and block potential SQL injection attempts.

5. **Regular Security Audits:** Conduct routine security assessments and penetration testing to identify and address potential SQL injection vulnerabilities.

In conclusion, an SQL injection attack is a critical security threat that exploits vulnerabilities in web applications' handling of SQL queries. By following secure coding practices and applying proper input validation, developers can significantly reduce the risk of SQL injection and protect the integrity and confidentiality of their applications and data.

More resources on SQL injection attacks:

{{ youtube(id="_jKylhJtPmI", class="textCenter") }}
{{ youtube(id="ciNHn38EyRc", class="textCenter") }}

- [PortSwigger SQL Injection Attacks in depth](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection)

{{ webring(webring="#", webringName="Go to the Top") }}
